---
page_title: "directus_role Resource - Directus"
description: |-
  Manages a Directus role. Roles define user positions within a project and support hierarchical parent-child inheritance.
---

# directus_role (Resource)

Manages a Directus role. Roles define user positions within a project and can inherit from parent roles to form a hierarchy.

In Directus v11+, roles themselves do not grant permissions directly. Instead, policies are attached to roles via the `directus_role_policies_attachment` resource, which uses the `directus_access` junction table under the hood.

See the [Directus Roles API documentation](https://docs.directus.io/reference/system/roles.html) for more details.

## Example Usage

Registry-ready example files:

- `examples/resources/role/resource.tf`
- `examples/resources/role/import.sh`

### Basic Example

```hcl
resource "directus_role" "editor" {
  name        = "Editor"
  description = "Content editor role"
  icon        = "edit"
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `name` - (Required) The name of the role.
* `description` - (Optional) A description of the role.
* `icon` - (Optional) The name of a [Google Material Design Icon](https://fonts.google.com/icons) assigned to this role.
* `parent` - (Optional) The UUID of the parent role. Child roles inherit permissions from their parent. Circular references are not allowed.

## Attribute Reference

In addition to all arguments above, the following attributes are exported:

* `id` - The UUID of the role, auto-generated by Directus.
* `children` - (Computed) List of child role UUIDs that inherit from this role.
* `users` - (Computed) List of user UUIDs assigned to this role.

~> **Note** Deleting a role that has child roles will cause those children to become orphaned. Consider removing or reassigning child roles first.

## Import

Roles can be imported using their UUID:

```shell
terraform import directus_role.example 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789abc
```
